# Results

  For our project, OpenFlight: Determining Cost Efficiency, we utilized datasets of airports and routes provided by OpenFlight. We decided to employ Breadth-First Search and Dijkstra’s shortest path algorithm in our project primarily for visualizing cost efficiency. In order to start our project, we first extracted needed data in the following order: source airport ID, latitude of source airport, longitude of source airport, destination airport ID, latitude of destination airport, longitude of destination airport. We stored these data in a single csv file called dataset.csv. We then created graph classes to construct graph with edges indicating cost of flight.

  Shortly after deciding what algorithm and traversal method would be used, we started writing pseudocode for BFS and graph. We also implemented code for reading the csv file we made for our project so that we could use the extracted data for constructing a graph that determines the cost efficiency. After creating a graph, we calculated the frequency of each airport depending on how many times each airport was used as a source or destination. We also calculated the distance utilizing the longitude and latitude primarily for approximating the cost of a flight. After calculating frequency and distance, we implemented Dijkstra’s shortest path algorithm to put cost into every edge of the nodes. We then made a graph visualization of the BFS process as a map and text visualization of Dijkstra’s shortest path algorithm. The text visualization figures out if there is a cheaper flight when considering factors of frequency, distance, cost, and the shortest path. Then it writes the result of whether there is a cheaper flight or not to a file called cheaperflights.txt. For graph visualization of the BFS, we went through the edge list, finding source and destination as well as longitude and latitude of them. Then we draw lines that connect source and destination.

  Ultimately, we successfully implemented all the features we first planned out in the proposal. Setting a certain goal of determining cost efficiency using OpenFlight dataset and fulfilling it were a highly valuable experience. We as a team certainly faced some difficulties while implementing our ideas and functions, however we were able to have a chance to utilize all the knowledge and skills we have learned throughout the semester, efficiently apply them into the project, and self-evaluate our ability. 
